# Just Announced: When We Were Young 2024 Lineup

I woke up today to an unread text message. Surprisingly, it was great news. "When We Were Young: 2024 lineup announced! Performing the albums & more!", the message read followed by a link and information about a presale ending with the now infamous line in the household "all tickets start at $19.99 down". Attached was an image divided into two parts. The top half of the image featured the When We Were Young festival logo and a collage of album art with My Chemical Romance's "The Black Parade" getting the spotlight. Zooming into the image revealed other classic albums such as Jimmy Eat World's "Bleed American" and Pierce the Veil's "Collide With The Sky". I was also able to read some important details that were not visible in the image preview in my messaging app or full screen on my Galaxy S21. The festival will be held on October 19, 2024 at the Las Vegas Festival Grounds. The edge of the image had a black border with a list of band names. Unfortunately, with MMS compression, the text was blurry. The bottom half of the image strongly implied something that sold me instantly and will make me plan another trip to Vegas if I am able to snag a ticket this year.

The image featured the backside of a jewel case on pink carpet. What would typically be the tracklist was instead a list of artists and albums. My eyes were darting back and forth, "The Red Jumpsuit Apparatus - Don't You Fake It", "The Used - In Love and Death", I had to double check what I was reading. The list contained a bunch of artists that were on the inaugural Vegas lineup. The message actually invoked similar feelings from when that lineup dropped. Except now there was no doubt that the announcement was real, it was more confusion as to whether or not I understood what was happening correctly. Were these bands actually playing the albums from start to finish?

It was time to do some quick social media investigating. The My Chemical Romance Facebook page made a post that was essentially just the text message I received with the addition of the line "long live The Black Parade". This sounded promising, but did not completely confirm my assumption that they would be playing the album in its entirety. My Chemical Romance has done it before, it was documented in the live album and concert film "The Black Parade is Dead", currently streaming on YouTube. I hopped on Instagram and Threads and very quickly my feeds were filled with recommended posts from artists that would be performing at the festival with the confirmation that I was hoping to hear. The albums listed would be played from start to finish.

Listening to albums in their entirety is typically how I consume music. A festival that is going to deliver on the promise of albums being played in full is pretty much a dream result. When I saw My Chemical Romance perform at The Forum in Los Angeles, they played nearly every song from "Three Cheers for Sweet Revenge", my favorite album, and I was hyped. I never thought I would actually have a realistic chance of seeing My Chemical Romance performing "The Black Parade" from start to finish. To be honest, I never thought I would get the chance to see My Chemical Romance. For a long time, I was worried that my expectations were too high and that I would only be disappointed, but they proved me wrong, twice. They put on fantastic shows and I am ready to commit to seeing them again.

Currently, the festival is set to take place on one day. When We Were Young has always been announced as a one day festival. I am hoping that they continue the trend of adding additional dates with the same exact lineup and schedule. The first year introduced a third day taking place on a second weekend. That third show was how I was able to get tickets. It also worked better for me as it landed directly on my birthday. What a day. Last year, a second day was added, but I kept holding out for a third show. It never happened. I kept making predictions about what was going to happen. What if Tony Hawk made an appearance during Goldfinger's set? What if Bowling for Soup played the "Phineas and Ferb" theme song? Both of these predictions came true and I missed it. What if My Chemical Romance brings out Liza Minnelli on stage? If it happens, hopefully I am there to see it.
