# One Year On Mastodon: A Story

I saw a post on Mastodon today about someone celebrating their one year anniversary on the platform. November 2022 marked a huge influx of new users on Mastodon, including myself. I still have my first post on the platform pinned on my profile. It is a simple post saying hello with the tragic mistake of forgetting the "introduction" hashtag. At the time I didn't realize how critical hashtags were on Mastodon and editing was equivalent to deleting the post and sending it out again. The date on the post is listed as November 10th. I assumed that this was the day I also joined Mastodon, but thanks to my habit of staying up late, I technically joined on November 9th and made the post after the clock hit midnight. It was a crazy few weeks. People were joining different social media platforms to see where the new hangout spot would be. There was a week where out of nowhere an app called Hive took over people's attention. I was borderline hoping forums would make a return. I read a lot of introduction posts on Mastodon, but not much activity outside from that. Despite a lot of people that I want to follow missing on the platform, I still have made over 2,000 posts over the course of the year with no plans on stopping.

Mastodon has become a dumping ground for my Wordle scores and live reactions to Angels baseball. As the only person on my instance, I am surprised by the traction that my Wordle posts get. There is a solid community of people still playing the game. I utilize the platform's content warning feature to list the current Wordle puzzle and require a click to see my score to improve accessibility and prevent screen readers from going crazy from reading the emoji blocks out loud.

Content warnings are also utilized on my other series of daily posts where I post my solutions to sudoku puzzles from a daily sudoku calendar that I purchased for a dollar. I don't know if I've ever received any interactions on these posts, but I just want to document my commitment to get my entire value out of that dollar. Maybe someone will eventually point out why the dates are from a 2022 calendar. For a while, I was successful in actually keeping up with the sudoku puzzles every day and making it a new habit. There were a couple of days in April where I got busy and had to do multiple puzzles in one day to keep up, but I was able to maintain the pace until the end of the summer when I got sick. A lot of posts in the daily sudoku calendar project these days are about how many puzzles away I am from catching up. I still have not been feeling completely well and find myself falling behind, but I believe I will be able to finish every puzzle in that calendar by the end of the year.

Documenting moments is why I continue making posts regardless of the audience. I am really leaning into the microblogging nature of Mastodon. Search tools are getting better, but it still is difficult to find older posts. Archives are definitely an issue on Mastodon. If I ever needed to move my account to a different instance, none of my posts would transfer over which would be a great loss to me. Mastodon offers a robust API that I want to explore further to see how difficult it would be to automatically generate static websites from posts with specific hashtags. I think most people would rather automatically post to Mastodon instead, but it would be interesting to see posts with a new visual flair.

